Let's dive into native device features and how we can use them in our web app.
Previously, these features were basically only available in native applications, which means built with
Swift or Objective C for iOS or Android for well, Android,
now we can also access some of them through the web.
Of course always in a progressive way,
so not all browsers support this but you will learn how to do that progressively
and with that,
why don't we go to our application which is all about sharing posts, moments, pictures with other people
and add camera access to take a selfie and add the geolocation to find out where we actually are.
Let's do this and let's start by preparing our project for that. To move on with our project and access
the camera, get the location, we need more tools.
Right now, if we go to the feed page and we create a new post, we can only enter title and location,
there is no button to take a picture,
there is no button to get the location. Now attached to this video here,
you will find some code you can enter and I'll now add it together with you so that we add everything
to the place it should go.
The first piece of code we're going to add is something we add to our index.html file in the public
folder.
There we have this modal we're basically opening and there, we have the title input and the location input.
Now above the form element here, I want you to enter this video,
this canvas and this button element.
Now video and canvas will later be used to take a picture,
I of course will show you how this works
and the button here simply is used to well, take the picture then.
Now that's one part, to also support
backward compatibility,
I also want to add a file picker though.
Now this is used to present a file picker for devices which don't have a camera or browsers which don't
support using the camera,
so we'll of course add some code to either show this file picker here where we can pick an image or to
show this part at the top here where we can take an image using the device camera.
The last bit of code we're going to add after but video, canvas, button and the pick image part here is below
the location div here, so below this div holding the location input, I'll add another div which also has this
input section class
and there we have a button to get the location and also a loader,
so a spinner we can display whilst we're fetching the location to indicate that we're doing something.
Now if we save it like this and go back to our application, we of course would have to clear the site
data to reload our code
since we changed our HTML code which is cached and if we do so, we would destroy the subscriptions we set
up, right?
So we'll do it old school,
go to the service worker and bump up our static cache
version. This allows us to then simply reload the page to install the new service worker, then close the
tab and open it again as you know it, to activate this new service worker.
With that, we cached our new files and
now if I open this, you see this doesn't look too great. Now no worries, we'll enhance this. The white space you see
at the top here is basically this video and canvas element which we're not feeding with any device data
yet,
then you see the file picker here,
the cool thing is here you can pick it, pick an image,
now we'll later hide this if we have camera access and you see the spinner and the get location button
which of course doesn't do anything.
But we also see that the general set up is working,
you also see that we can't click this exit button because it's off screen. Now that won't matter here because
we're showing way too much stuff here
in the end. If we want to fix it though which we probably should, we can go to feed.css and there, it's
related
to this create post set up. If we set top to zero here and not 256 pixels, it fits our minimum height of
100vh,
so taking the full space and it will only start to scroll if we exceed that.
So now with that if we go back to the service worker and bump the static version up to 26,
same game as before,
reload the page, then open it in a new tab again to not delete your service worker,
now we'll see that this works and we can scroll all the way to the bottom to see this.
Now this is one possible solution,
you see it's now below this top bar and we can close this easily.
An alternative solution to this would be to set the minimum height, to calculate it from the maximum height
of our screen minus 56 pixels which is just the height of our top bar and then position
it 56 pixels from the top so we get the best of both worlds.
The content of the modal fits fully on the screen and we still make sure we don't push parts of that
modal below the top bar.
So let's update the service worker file
one final time and I'm just showing this to make sure that we have a nice looking application here.
So let's reload this one more time
and now we should see that if I open this modal, we still can scroll all the way to the top
but in the end, all the content fits on there even though this is white,
we got no overlapping here.
Now we're not done though, we're showing stuff we don't want to show here,
so we need to add more
code.
First of all, I'll go to the feed.css file and add some code here, regarding the canvas and
the video and that code is attached too.
So here I add create post video and canvas, this simply styles the video and canvas elements to fit nicely
on the page screen and to well, basically look nice there.
I'll also add another style, create post pick image.
This hides this image picker by default because we only want to show it manually later on if we are
on the device where we don't have access to the camera because we don't have a camera or because the browser
doesn't support it and I'll add this create post capture button styling which will style this capture button
below the camera. Here
the goal simply is to position it nicely by giving it a top and bottom margin and then centering it.
Finally I want to add code regarding the spinner of this library and this will just center it nicely. With
that, we should have all the code we need to style this,
now we won't see that big of a difference here if we reload it
and keep in mind, you need to bump up that version number.
So let's do this one final time here, let's save this, reload and then close and open this. We won't see
that much of a difference though because we're still not controlling that we can access the camera or
anything like that.
You do see though that we're hiding the canvas and video by default,
I will show it once we do have access to the camera and that's all for now.
So this is the starting state with which we'll start, in the next lecture we'll actually start writing
code in Javascript to access the camera,
show a live picture of our camera in this modal and eventually, take a screenshot.